README.md, before:

# SLISEMAP: Combine supervised dimensionality reduction with local explanations

SLISEMAP is a supervised dimensionality reduction method, that takes data, in the form of vectors, and predictions from a *black box* regression or classification model as input. SLISEMAP then simultaneously finds local explanations for all data items and builds a (typically) two-dimensional global visualisation of the black box model such that data items with similar local explanations are projected nearby. The explanations consists of *white box* models that locally approximate the *black box* model.

SLISEMAP is implemented in *Python* using *PyTorch* for efficient optimisation, and optional GPU-acceleration. For more information see the [full paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.04455), the [demo paper](https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap/blob/main/examples/demo_paper.pdf), the [demonstration video](https://youtu.be/xp4LTysr8PA) ([slides](https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap/blob/main/examples/slisemap_demo_paper.pptx)), the [examples directory](https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap/tree/master/examples), or the [documentation](https://edahelsinki.github.io/slisemap).


## Citation

> *Björklund, A., Mäkelä, J. & Puolamäki, K. (2022).*  
> **SLISEMAP: Supervised dimensionality reduction through local explanations**.  
> arXiv:2201.04455 [cs], [https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.04455](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.04455).  


## Installation

To install the package just run:

```sh
pip install slisemap
```

Or install the latest version directly from [GitHub](https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap):

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap
```

### PyTorch

Since SLISEMAP utilises PyTorch for efficient calculations, you might want to install a version that is optimised for your hardware. See [https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) for details.


## Example

```python
import numpy as np
from slisemap import Slisemap

X = np.array(...)
y = np.array(...)
sm = Slisemap(X, y, radius=3.5, lasso=0.001)
sm.optimise()
sm.plot(clusters=4, bars=5)
```
![Example plot of the results from using SLISEMAP on the *Auto MPG* dataset](examples/autompg.webp)

See the [examples directory](https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap/tree/master/examples) for more detailed examples, and the [documentation](https://edahelsinki.github.io/slisemap) for more detailed instructions.

Commit message:

mention version and results in the readme

README.md, after:

|*This branch is frozen at version 1.1.0 and contains the experiments (and results) for the paper in the [experiments](experiments/) directory!*|
|---|

# SLISEMAP: Combine supervised dimensionality reduction with local explanations

SLISEMAP is a supervised dimensionality reduction method, that takes data, in the form of vectors, and predictions from a *black box* regression or classification model as input. SLISEMAP then simultaneously finds local explanations for all data items and builds a (typically) two-dimensional global visualisation of the black box model such that data items with similar local explanations are projected nearby. The explanations consists of *white box* models that locally approximate the *black box* model.

SLISEMAP is implemented in *Python* using *PyTorch* for efficient optimisation, and optional GPU-acceleration. For more information see the [full paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.04455), the [demo paper](examples/demo_paper.pdf), the [demonstration video](https://youtu.be/xp4LTysr8PA) ([slides](examples/slisemap_demo_paper.pptx)), the [examples directory](examples/), or the [documentation](https://edahelsinki.github.io/slisemap).


## Citation

> *Björklund, A., Mäkelä, J. & Puolamäki, K. (2022).*  
> **SLISEMAP: Supervised dimensionality reduction through local explanations**.  
> Machine Learning 112, 1-43. DOI: [10.1007/s10994-022-06261-1](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10994-022-06261-1). [arXiv:2201.04455](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.04455).  


## Installation

To install the package just run:

```sh
pip install slisemap
```

Or install the latest version directly from [GitHub](https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap):

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap
```

### PyTorch

Since SLISEMAP utilises PyTorch for efficient calculations, you might want to install a version that is optimised for your hardware. See [https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) for details.


## Example

```python
import numpy as np
from slisemap import Slisemap

X = np.array(...)
y = np.array(...)
sm = Slisemap(X, y, radius=3.5, lasso=0.001)
sm.optimise()
sm.plot(clusters=4, bars=5)
```
![Example plot of the results from using SLISEMAP on the *Auto MPG* dataset](examples/autompg.webp)

See the [examples directory](https://github.com/edahelsinki/slisemap/tree/master/examples) for more detailed examples, and the [documentation](https://edahelsinki.github.io/slisemap) for more detailed instructions.
